## Software requirements
Requirements for a software system set out what the system should do and define constraints on its operations

Functional requirements are statements of the services that the systems must provide  or are descriptions of how some computations must be carried out. Domain requirements are functional requirements that are derived from characteristics of the application domain

Non-functional requirements constrain the system being developed and the development process that should be used. They may be product requirements, organisational requirements or external requirements. They often relate to the emergent properties of the system and therefore apply to the system as a whole.

User requirements are intended for use by people involved in using and procuring the system. They should be written using in natural language, with tables and diagrams that are easily understood.

System requirements are intended to communicate, in a precise way, the functions that the system must provide. To reduce ambiguity, they may be written in a structured form of natural language supplemented by tables and system models.

The software requirements document is the agreed statement of the system requirements. It should be organised so that both system customers and software developers can use it.

The IEEE standard for requirements documents is a useful starting point for more specific requirements specification standards.

---

## Requirements engineering process
The requirements engineering process include a feasibility study, requirements elicitation and analysis, requirements specification, requirements validation and requirements management.


Requirements elicitation and analysis is an iterative process that can be represented as a spiral of activities- requirements discovery, requirements classification and organisation, requirements negotiation and requirements documentation.

Different stakeholders in the system have different requirements. All complex systems should therefore be analysed from a number of viewpoints. viewpoints can be people or other systems that interact with the system being specified, stakeholders who are effected by the system, or domain viewpoints that constrain the requirements.

Social and organisational factors have a strong influence on system requirements and may determine whether the software is actually used.

Requirements validation is the process of checking the requirements for validity, consistency, completeness, realism and verifiability. Requirements reviews and prototyping are the principal techniques used for requirements validations. 

Business, organisational and technical changes inevitably lead to changes to the requirements for a software system. Requirements management is the process of managing and controlling these changes.

The requirements management process includes management planning, where policies and procedures for requirements management are designed, and change management, where you analyse proposed requirements changes and assess their impacts.


---
## System Models
A model is an abstract view of a system that ignores some system details. Complementary system models can be developed to present other information about the system.

Context model show how the system being modelled is positioned in an environment with other systems and processes. They define the boundaries of the system. Architectural models, process models and data-flow models may be used as context models.

Data-flow diagrams may be used to model the data processing carried out by a system. The system is modelled as a set of data transformations with functions acting on the data.

State machine models are used to model a system's behaviour in response to internal or external events.

Semantic data models describe the logical structure of the data that is imported to and exported by the system. These models show system entities, their attributes and the relationships in which they participate. 

Object models describe the logical system entities and their classification and aggregation. They combine a data model with a processing model. Possible objects models that may be developed include inheritance models, aggregation models and behavioural models.


Sequence models that show interactions between actors and  objects in a system are used to model dynamic behaviour.

Structured methods provide a framework for supporting the development of system model. They normally have extensive case tool support, including model editing and checking and code generating. 

---
## Formal Specifications
Methods of formal system specification complement informal requirements specification techniques. They may be used with a natural language requirements definition to clarify any areas of potential ambiguity int the specification.

Formal specification are precise an unambiguous. The remove areas of doubt in a specification and avoid some of the problems of language misinterpretation. However, non-specialists may find formal specifications difficult to understand.

The principal value of using formal methods in the software process is that it forces an analysis of the system requirements at a very early stage. Correcting errors at this stage is cheaper then modifying a delivered system.

Formal specification techniques are most cost-effective in the development of critical systems where [[safety]], [[reliability]] and [[Security]] are particularly important. They may also be used to specify standards.

Algebraic techniques of formal specification are particularly suited to specifying interfaces where the interface is defined as a set of object classes or abstract data types. These techniques conceal the system state and specify the system in terms of relationships between the interface operations.

Model-based techniques model the system using mathematical constructs such as sets and functions. They may expose the system state, which simplifies some type of behavioural specification.

You define the operations in a model-based specification by defining pre- and pos-conditions on the system state.