## Architectural Design
The software architecture is the fundamental framework for constructing the system. Properties of a system such as performance, [[Security]] and [[availability]] are influence by the architecture used.

Architectural design decisions include decisions on the type of application, the distribution of the system, the architectural styles to be used and the ways in which the architecture should be documented and evaluated.

Different architectural models such as a structural model, a control model and decomposition model may be developed during the architectural design process.

Organisational models of a system include repository models, client-server model and abstract machine models. Repository models share data through a common store. Client-Server model usually distribute data . Abstract machine models are layered, with each layer implemented using the facilities provided by its foundation layer.

Decomposition styles include object-oriented and function-oriented decomposition. Pipelining models are functional, and object models are base on loosely coupled entities that maintain their own state and operations. 

Control styles include centralised control and event-based control. In centralised models of control, control decision are made depending on the system state; in event models, external events control the system.

Reference architectures may be sed as a vehicle to discuss domain-specific architectures and to assess and compare architectural designs.

---
## Distributed Systems Architectures

Distributed systems can support resource sharing, openness, concurrency, scalability, fault tolerance and transparency.

Client-server systems are distributed systems where the system is modelled as a set of services provided by servers to client processes.

In a client-server system, the user interface always runs on a client, and data management is always provided by a shared server. Application functionality may be implemented on the client computer or on the server.  

In a distributed object architecture, there is no distinction between clients and servers. objects provide general services that may be called on by other objects. This approach may be used for implementing client-server systems.

Distributed object systems require middleware to handle object communications and to allow objects to be added to and removed from the system.

The CORBA standards are a set of standards for middleware that supports distributed object architectures. They include object model definitions, definitions of an object request broker and common service definitions. Various implementations of the CORBA standards are available.

Peer-to-peer architectures are decentralised architectures where there are no distinguished clients and servers. Computations can be distributed over many systems in different organisations.

Service-oriented systems are created by linking software services provided by various service suppliers. An important aspect of service-oriented architectures is that binding of services to the architectural components can be delayed until the system is deployed or is executing.

---
## Object Oriented Design
Object-oriented design is an approach to software design where the fundamental components in the design represent objects with their own private state as well as represent operations rather than functions.

An object should have constructor and inspection operations allowing its state to be inspected and modified. The object provides services (operations using state information) to other objects. objects are created at run-time using a specification in an object class definition.

Objects may be implemented sequentially or concurrently. A concurrent object may be a passive object whose state is only changed through its interface or an active object that can change its own state without outside intervention.

The Unified Modelling Language (UML) provides a range of notations that can be used to document an object-oriented design.

The process of object-oriented design includes activities to design the system architecture, identify objects in the system, describe the design using different object models and document the object interfaces.

A range of different models may be produced during an object-oriented design process.  
These include static models (class models, generalisation models, association models) and dynamic models (sequence models, state machine models).  

Object interfaces must be defined precisely so that other objects can use them. A programming language such as Java may be used to document object interfaces.

An important advantage of object-oriented design is that it simplifies the evolution of the system.