## Rapid Software Development
As pressure grows for the rapid delivery of software, an iterative approach to software development is becoming increasingly used as the standard development technique for small and medium-sized systems, especially in the business domain.

Agile methods are iterative development methods that focus on incremental specification, design and system implementation. They involve the customer directly in the development process. Reducing development overhead can make faster software development possible.  

Extreme programming is a well-known agile method that integrates a range of good programming practices such as systematic testing, continuous software improvement and customer participation in the development team.

A particular strength of extreme programming is the development of automated tests before a program feature is created. All tests must successfully execute when an increment is integrated into a system.

Rapid application development involves using development environments that include powerful tools to support system production. These include database programming languages, form and report generators, and links to office applications.

Throw-away prototyping is an iterative development process where a prototype system is used to explore the requirements and design options. This prototype is not intended for deployment by the system customer.

When implementing a throw-away prototype, you first develop the parts of the system you understand least; by contrast, in an incremental development approach, you begin by developing the parts of the system you understand best.

---
## Software Reuse
The advantages of software reuse are lower costs, faster software development and lower risks. System [[dependability]] is increased and specialists can be used more effectively by concentrating their expertise on the design of reusable components.

Design patterns are high-level abstractions that document successful design solutions. They are fundamental to design reuse in object-oriented development. A pattern description should include a pattern name, a problem and solution description, and a statement of the results and trade-offs of using the pattern.

Program generators are an alternative approach to concept reuse where the reusable concepts are embedded in a generator system. The designer specifies the abstractions required using a domain-specific language, and an executable program is generated.

Applications frameworks are collections of concrete and abstract objects that are designed to be reused through specialisation and the addition of new objects.  

COTS product reuse is concerned with the reuse of large-scale, off-the-shelf systems. These provide a lot of functionality, and their reuse can radically reduce costs and development time.

Potential problems with COTS-based reuse include lack of control over functionality and performance, lack of control over system evolution, the need for support from external vendors and difficulties in ensuring that systems can interoperate.
  
Enterprise Resource Planning systems are very widely used. Specific ERP systems are created by configuring a generic system at deployment time with information about the customer's business.

Software product lines are related applications that are developed from one or more base applications. A generic system is adapted and specialised to meet specific requirements f functionality, target platform or operational configuration.

----
## Component-Based Software Engineering
Component-based software engineering is a reuse-based approach to defining, implementing and composing loosely coupled independent components into systems.

A component is a software unit whose functionality and dependencies are completely defined by a set of public interfaces. Components can be combined with other components without reference to their implementation and can be deployed as an executable unit.

A component model defines a set of standards for components, including interface standards, usage standards and deployment standards. The implementation of the component model provides a set of horizontal services that may be used by all components.  

During the CBS process, you have to interleave the processes of requirements engineering and system design. You have to trade-off desirable requirements against the services that are available from existing reusable components.  

Component composition is the process of wiring' components together to create a system.  
Types of composition include sequential composition, hierarchical composition and additive  
composition.

When composing reusable components that have not been written for your application, you normally need to write adaptors or 'glue code' to reconcile the different component interfaces.

When choosing compositions, you have to consider the required functionality of the system, the non-functional requirements and the ease with which one component can be replaced by another when the system is changed.

---
## Critical Systems Development
[[Dependability]] in a program can be achieved by avoiding the introduction of faults, by detecting and removing faults before system deployment and by including fault tolerance facilities that allow the system to remain operational after a fault has caused a system failure.

The use of redundancy and diversity in both software processes and software systems is essential to the development of dependable systems.

The use of a well-defined, repeatable process is important if faults in a system are to be minimised. The process should include verification and validation activities at all stages, from requirements definition through system implementation.

Some programming constructs and techniques, such as goto statements, pointers, recursion, inheritance and floating-point numbers, are inherently error-prone. These should not be used when developing dependable systems.

Exceptions are used to support error management in dependable systems. All exceptions should be explicitly handled in a dependable system.

The four aspects of program fault tolerance are failure detection, damage assessment, fault recovery and fault repair.

N-version programming and recovery blocks are alternative approaches to fault-tolerant architectures where redundant copies of the hardware and software are maintained. Both rely on design diversity and the use of a fault-tolerance controller to coordinate the execution of redundant program units.

---
## Software Evolution
Software development and evolution should be a single, integrated, iterative process that can be represented using a spiral model.

Lehman's laws, such as the notion that change is continuous, describe a number of insights derived from long-term studies of system evolution.

There are three types of software maintenance: bug fixing, modifying the software to work in a new environment, and implementing new or changed requirements.

For custom systems, the costs of software maintenance generally exceed the software development costs.

The process of software evolution is driven by requests for changes and includes change impact analysis, release planning and change implementation.

Software re-engineering is concerned with re-structuring and re-documenting software to make it more understandable and easier to change.

The business value of a legacy system and the quality of the application software and its environment should be assessed to determine whether the system should be replaced, transformed or maintained.
