## V&V
Verification and validation are not the same thing. Verification is intended to show that a program meets its specification. Validation is intended to show that the program does what the user requires.

Test plans should include a description of the items to be tested, the testing schedule, the procedures for managing the testing process, the hardware and software requirements, and any testing problems that are likely to arise.

Static verification techniques involve examination and analysis of the program source code to detect errors. They should be used with program testing as part of the V & V process.

Program inspections are effective in finding program errors. The aim of an inspection is to locate faults. A fault checklist should drive the inspection process.

In a program inspection, a small team systematically checks the code. Team members include a team leader or moderator, the author of the code, a reader who presents the code during the inspection and a tester who considers the code from a testing perspective.

Static analysers are software tools that process a program source code and draw attention to anomalies such as unused code sections and uninitialised variables. These anomalies may be the result of faults in the code.

Cleanroom software development relies on static techniques for program verification and statistical testing for system [[reliability]] certification. It has been successful in producing systems that have a high level of [[reliability]].

---
## Software Testing
Testing can only show the presence of errors in a program. It cannot demonstrate that there are no remaining faults.

Component testing is the responsibility of the component developer. A separate testing team usually carries out system testing.

Integration testing is the initial system testing activity where you test integrated components for defects. Release testing is concerned with testing customer releases and should validate that the system to be released meets its requirements.

When testing systems, you should try to 'break' the system by using experience and guidelines to choose types of test cases that have been effective in discovering defects in other systems.

Interface testing is intended to discover defects in the interfaces of composite components.

Interface defects may arise because of errors made in reading the specification, specification misunderstandings or errors or invalid timing assumptions.

Equivalence partitioning is a way of deriving test cases. It depends on finding partitions in the input and output data sets and exercising the program with values from these partitions. Often, the value that is most likely to lead to a successful test is a value at the boundary of a partition.

Structural testing relies on analysing a program to determine paths through it and using this analysis to assist with the selection of test cases.

Test automation reduces the costs of testing by supporting the testing process with a range of software tools.

---
## Critical System Validation
Statistical testing is used to estimate software [[reliability]]. It relies on testing the system with a lest data set that reflects the operational profile of the software. Test data may be generated automatically.

Reliability growth models display the change in reliability as faults are removed from software during the testing process. Reliability models can be used to predict when the required reliability will be achieved.

[[Safety]] proofs are an effective product safety assurance technique. They show that an identified hazardous condition can never occur. They are usually simpler than proving that a program meets its specification.

It is important to have a well-defined, certified process for safety-critical systems development. The process must include the identification and monitoring of potential hazards.

[[Security]] validation may be carried out using experience-based analysis, tool-based analysis, or 'tiger teams' that simulate attacks on the system.

Safety cases collect all of the evidence that demonstrates a system is safe. These safety cases are required when an external regulator must certify the system before it is used.